The Joe Rogan experience.
Do you want to talk about that thing that you might be doing? Yeah, let's do.
It. We've got to push.
This microphone in front of you. You just get you, there you go. Like that.
So tell me what this, what is this announcement what's going on?
So I just signed a big contract, bro. I'm coming back to fighting. Oh yeah.
And the great words of TJ Dillashaw. Daddy's home,
but I'm not coming back to MMA, man. Uh,
I know that I've been seeing a lot of people's comment and they're kind of
hoping that I am. Um, I'm coming back to boxing, man.
I want to try something different.
Now you come back to regular boxing. Are you going to do bare knuckle boxing?
I think we're going to throw some bare knuckle in there, bro. Just mix it up.
Get real crazy.
No, I've seen you. You're working out a lot. You hitting a lot of meds. Like,
were you doing that before? Or did you just have this? Did they contact you?
Like how did this come about?
So we've, I mean,
this is actually something that's kind of been in the works for probably a year
now. Um, you know, it's just for me, look,
I just turned 36 in may and we were just talking about still having that,
that desire. Like when I, when I left the UFC,
I was just about to have my first baby. Um, you know, we had,
I had a lot on my plate. There was obviously I had just lost,
but even going into that fight,
I had started a company,
was working on a few other companies and there was a lot that I was more excited
about than competing at the time. And I mean,
obviously we know that this sport is so brutal. Like you,
if you don't have a a hundred percent mindset into it, you're going to get up.
You know? And it's, for me, it was like, look, dude,
I'm going to take some time off. Um, I'm going to, or just, or just end it here.
I have other things going on and we'll see kind of what happens in the future.
So I decided to retire, talks it over with the wife and that was, you know,
what the game plan was. So, uh,
fast forward two and a half years later, um, you know,
obviously I still have that desire. Um, and obviously my CR,
my baby girl is bigger. Now we are, uh, pregnant with a second. And,
uh, I just started thinking like, man, I'm getting older.
I don't want to get into my forties.
And then basically still have this desire to compete and be like, it's too late.
You know? So I'm like, let's, let's start talking to some of these guys.
I've always wanted to box, you know, coming off of wrestling. My,
my style even in the UFC was boxing and wrestling and were probably my two
favorite things to do. Like,
I absolutely loved boxing sparring when I would be training through to through
training camps. Um, and then obviously wrestling too, but, um,
I always wanted to try and compete in some type of boxing competition. Um,
and so, uh, bare knuckle actually reached out to favor and was like, Hey,
do you think Mendez would ever be interested in this? And I'm like, I mean,
I probably never thought about anything bare knuckle before, but you know,
boxing definitely would be fun.
Let me ask you this about Bernard. Well, why,
why do they have those like really thick wraps that go all around the hand,
but just expose the knuckle.
And it's not mandatory on anybody.
Like I see some guys where they just take their hand. Right.
But I think a lot of people do that for wrist support, right? Like, you know,
obviously you punched like a bag with no support in your wrist.
And a lot of the times it folds, but didn't.
Joe rigs get his eye cut because of one of the, uh, when he fought Lombard,
didn't the rap actually scraped.
I heard that. Yeah. And it's, you know,
I think that this is an organization that's still very brand new and there's
probably still working all these kinks out. But, um, I mean,
I'm probably gonna re tape the out of my wrist just for that,
for the reason of support. But yeah, I think that's something that's, you know,
it's definitely a possibility of getting cut on that stuff. Do you know.
When you're fighting?
October 22nd? Oh, Jesus. It's coming up October 22nd opponent.
No opponent yet, but it's still a Chandler Arizona is what they're saying.
So wait one 50 fives. Okay. So.
You're not going to have to cut.
Nope, that's it. I told him, I said, look, dude, I, we just talked about,
I don't want to cut much anymore. You know, obviously I'm getting older,
it's harder. It's going to be hard as hell to make 40 fives. But, um,
if I can go 50 fives, I would greatly appreciate that. And they're like, no,
that's actually better. You're going to have more opponents to choose from. So,
uh, I think that's what we're going to do. Um, how many rounds, uh, there 5, 5,
2 minute rounds, which I think is doing two minute rounds.
I don't know why they're maybe just,
I'm not sure exactly what their thought process on that, but I mean,
I love that I'm a explosive athlete. Obviously.
I think this I'm pretty much built for this style of fighting. You know,
I can get in there. I can be fast, explosive, quick, um, powerful.
And you know, it's a quick round. I don't have to pace myself,
grind out those five minute rounds.
I can just get in there and knock someone's head off and, uh, and be good.
So that's going to be a big.
Difference for you, right. Going from five minute rounds.
Two minute, minute rounds,
I've been hit mitts for two minute rounds and I'm like,
I feel like I just started. Right, right. Like I could go, you know,
I feel good if.
You training two minutes or you doing longer so that you feel like.
Two minutes is nothing we're going to mix both in.
And my thought process on that is, um,
even when I was training for five minute rounds, we do five minute rounds.
I don't, we would do more of them, but I want my body,
my mind to get used to exactly what it's going to feel like because of that
reason, like, holy, it's already over, you know? So I need to know like,
you know, basically where I'm at in the round, you know, and,
and I want to get used to that,
but I'm definitely going to do some longer stuff too, or we'll do you know,
like 10, two minute rounds.
So you're basically just doing more of the exact same thing to where it's,
you know, you hit those five and it's like, I could go another,
another full fight here. So.
How long did you have to think about this before you decided to do it?
Well, like I said, it's been a whole year process kind of going back and forth.
Uh, my wife absolutely hates it. She's like, you're nuts,
but you know, I married a fighter. No. And that's what she's got.
She's got to remember that. Right. But, uh, um, no, I mean, it's,
it's definitely something we sat down and had, had to figure out because it's,
you know, it is something that's pretty brutal. And my,
my argument to her was this like a UFC gloves,
maybe a quarter of an inch of leather, half inch of leather over my knuckles.
I mean, the concussion's not going to be much different. If anything,
I think we're obviously dealing with a sharper object hitting you.
So cuts are probably going to be a lot more prevalent,
but as far as the concussion of, you know, getting hit,
you know, I don't think it's going to be much different.
I also don't have to worry about a baseball bat,
head kick going whipping through and cracking me in the dome either or someone
taking these out. So, you know,
there's a lot of other things in the MMA game that I think are a lot more
dangerous, but, um, you know, for me, it's just,
it had to make sense,
obviously the numbers they were thrown out in the beginning didn't make sense
for me. I have, you know, other businesses that are,
are doing really well right now that are,
are something that I can do for the rest of my life and not have to ever fight,
but I have that itch to get in there, compete still.
And I might as well do it now while I'm still in my prime.
And I have that opportunity because like I said, when I started hitting 38, 39,
you know,
maybe those opportunities have come and gone and nobody even really cares to see
me fight anymore or, you know,
I just don't feel good enough to get in there and do it. So.
It's interesting how they're going after so many former UFC fighters. I mean,
it's smart, right? These people are already famous, you know,
they got Paige Vanzant, Hector Lombard. Um, you now,
who else is over there? I know, uh, Leonard Garcia. Who else?
Uh.
Rochelle, uh, she just fought page, uh, as Austria.
Rachel [inaudible]. Oh yeah, yeah. Sorry. No, no, no. I didn't say I'm just
trying to, uh,
so they're doing a smart thing where they're getting popular fires or who were
, you know, known for UFC fights mostly, and then just introducing the bare knuckle world to them.
And
I know it's growing, right. I mean, it's, it's, it's people are paying attention now they're watching a lot of
fights.
Yeah. I, I know, uh,
Forbes just did a write up saying it's the fastest growing combat sport in the
world right now, you know?
Well, I always thought that, like,
it was weird that you could else elbow somebody in the face.
You could head kick somebody with a bear shin.
You can name in the nose with no pads, but your hands are covered with a pad.
I was, I was like, but I used to say like, why don't we just go bare knuckle?
Because first of all, it make grappling more realistic, like submissions,
you could sink and chokes and stuff.
But then I saw Chris leaving versus, uh, who is it?
Dakota, what's his name? Anyway,
Chris Lehman's face got destroyed. It was crazy the cuts. And I was like, oh,
maybe bare knuckles.
It is. And I think that, you know, you're going to have a lot of blood,
which probably makes it pretty entertaining for a lot of people, but yeah.
Cuts are definitely going to be there. I mean,
like you said, elbows though in the UFC like, oh yeah.
Up against the cage slash somebody or even off,
off their back and you're on top dropping elbows. I mean,
those cut probably more than knuckles I would imagine. But yeah. Um,
I think you get hit a lot more with punches than you do with elbows and a fight.
And that's probably where more, more cuts would come in. But.
How many of these things you're going to have.
Man? So, so here's the situation I S I'm still under UFC contract.
I still have fights on my UFC contract. So, you know,
there still is a possibility that I come back and maybe I want to do one or two
more UFC fights after this. We'll see, I'm going to get in there. And I'm.
Going to have, see, given you a green light to do this, is that how it works?
And so, which is super cool to use. I mean, they basically could have just said,
you, you're not competing. They kind of.
Said, you to George St. Pierre when he wanted to fight Oscar de LA.
Hoya. Well, that's because it's Oscar.
I know, but that's a great payday for Jordan.
I know. I know. Um, and in fact, some of that stuff was in the works for me.
Like we taught, I was, my name was thrown in there with Oscar really? Yeah. Uh,
which would have been freaking cool just to say,
you get in there and box a guy like Oscar, but yeah. They,
they wanted nothing to do with any of that stuff. So, you know, for them.
I see an Oscar do not get it's Dana and Oscar do not get along.
I don't know, but I always see them talking to each other. Yeah.
But so dumb, like, you know why that is what's happening?
I don't know.
But luckily the payday I was talking about getting with them is what I'm
getting in bare knuckle now. And, you know,
obviously it would have been cooler to say that I'm boxing Oscar de LA Hoya,
but.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan expense.